Define environment.
What do you mean by biotic component of the environment?
What do you mean by biotic component of the environment?
What is lithosphere?
What is lithosphere made up of?
What is hydrosphere?
What is atmosphere?
Define ecosystem? 
Give four examples of human made environment?
What are the two major components of biotic environment?
Give an example of a threat to the environment?
What are the components of environment ? 
Give an example of human made environment ? 
What do you mean by ecosystem? 
Define rock cycle.
What is the thickness of earth's crust ? 
Name four minerals which we use daily ? 
What is the thickness of earth's crust on continental masses ?
What is a rock?
Name two sedimentary rocks . 
Give three examples of fossil fuels?
Which type of rocks contain fossils?
Which is the thinnest layer of earth?
Name two uses of rocks?
Name the three major types of rocks. 
Name two igneous rocks.
What is the continental crust made up of ? 
What is the oceanic crust made up of ? 
What constitutes the inner layer of earth's core ?
What are the three layers of the earth?
What are the three major types of rocks ?
Which rock was used in the building the Taj Mahal?
The Red Fort is made up of which rock?
What are extrusive igneous rocks, give an example? 
What are intrusive igneous rocks, give an example?
How are metamorphic rocks formed? 
What are lithospheric plates?
What are endogenic forces?
What are exogenic forces?
What is a volcano?
What do you mean by epicentre?
What should you do during an earthquake?
What are meanders ? 
Define erosion. 
Name two rivers that form a delta and also locate it on the map. 
What are glaciers ? 
How is an ox-bow lake formed?
How are floodplains formed?
What are levees?
How are sea caves formed?
What are sand dunes?
How are sea beaches formed?
Where are large deposits of loess found?
What are sand dunes?
What are glacial morraines?
What is loess ? 
Name four sources of fresh water?
What is water cycle?
What is a terrairum?
Why is the sea water salty?
What is another name for table salt?
What is the average salinity of sea water?
What are the three types water movement in oceans?
Define a tsunami?
What is the English translation of the Japanese word "tsunami"?
How much of the earth's surface is covered by water? 
How much of the earth's water is fresh water? 
Which is the salt dissolved in sea water?
Define tides.
Draw a diagram for the spring tide.
Draw a digram for the neap tide.
When does neap tide occur?
When does spring tide occur?
How are tides useful to us?
What is the cause of tides?
What are ocean currents?
Name one cold ocean current ?
Name one warm ocean current?
What is precipitation?
Which factors affect the movement of ocean water?
Which is the highest mountain of Europe .
Why is the water quality deteriorating?
Which is the highest mountain in India. 
Triveni is the confluence point of which three rivers? Where is it ? 
Which is the largest delta system in the world and where is it ? 
Name India's largest fresh water lake?
 
